- [Instructor] Let's take a look at how Java server pages
make it easier to render content from a Jave EE application.
To start out, we'll begin where we left off
in our lest servlet lesson.
However instead of rendering the view
from hard-coded markup in the servlet,
we're going to use JSPs because they're more flexible
and you'll see it's a lot easier.
So to start out, we need to create a JSP.
To do that, we place the JSP within our web content folder
source main web app.
So just right-click on that folder,
go to new, and then select other, and then type JSP,
and you'll see we have the option to select a JSP file.
Now the next thing we need to do
is provide a name for that JSP.
We're going to call it list dot JSP,
and then we'll hit next and you'll see
we're given the option to pick a JSP template.
And these are basically just using different HTML doc types.
It's fine for us to use HTML5,
so just leave the default selected and hit finish.
And there's our first JSP.
Now we're going to get a headstart here on our markup,
so just navigate to the form dot HTML page
and grab all of the markup
within that page from the head tag down to the end.
And you'll just want to copy that,
and then take it over to the JSP and we'll just replace
everything below our HTML tag there with that markup.
Okay, so we got some markup that's going to serve
as our template for the list dot JSP page
and one thing I'm going to do is if we take a look
within this page, you'll see that we're setting this table
to about 150 pixels.
We won't need that much vertical space,
so I'm just going to remove that styling.
And the next thing that we got to take a look at
is our servlet.
So one thing you'll notice on the web servlet annotation,
we have removed the asynchronous nature
as well as on the filter.
We'll no longer be using async,
and so that means we can remove
all of this asynch code found within
the post method of our servlet.
So we'll just go ahead, remove that.
And then what we want to do is grab the code
within our method down here that prints out all the content
and just place it back in the post method
and then we'll clean up this method.
So here you can see all of the markup being generated.
That's exactly what we don't want to do with JSPs.
So let's remove that,
and we'll leave all of our logic that grabs the information
from the request.
And at this point, we can introduce
a request attribute,
so if we grab the HTTP servlet request,
you'll see the set attribute method.
And we're simply going to create an attribute named message,
and we're going to assign that attribute the value
of the product name that's coming in from the form.
So right here you see we set that string variable.
And the next thing we'll do is instruct the servlet
to navigate and forward the request
over to our JSP for further processing.
TO do that, we use the request dispatcher,
and in order to get an instance of a request dispatcher,
we use the HTTP servlet request interface
and it has a get request dispatcher method on it,
and then we just need to provide
the name of our JSP as an argument
and then you'll see that if we look at the dispatcher,
it has a forward method.
And it's simply going to pass over the request
as well as the response
to the JSP so that it can render our dynamic markup.
And the JSP's going to have access to this attribute
that we set on the request.
Okay, so now we can navigate back to our list dot JSP
and at this point we no longer have a use
for this form because we're looking to display content,
so let's remove that markup and then very simply
we're going to use the expression language,
so it uses a dollar sign and then curly brace syntax.
And there we can specify the message
attribute is what we'd like to reference.
And with that in place, we have our first dynamic content
within our JSP, so the HTML's serving
as a template and then we have our dynamic message
attribute being displayed.
Okay, with that in place, let's head over
to our project and we're going to run this on the server
so that we can see it in action.
There we see the consoles and our server starting up.
And then I'm going to navigate over to a web browser.
I do have the form favorited,
so there we see we can access the form.
And let's put in a new product, a hat,
and we'll say it's from Super Hat.
And the SKU is 1234.
And then we go ahead, submit our form,
and there you can see the dynamic content
within our JSP.
Now one thing I want to quickly show you
is that the JSP that we created
is actually turned into a servlet.
So that markup and the dynamic expression language
basically gets compiled into a servlet.
And we can see that within
our server if we navigate into the standalone directory,
and then you'll see this temp directory,
and then you'll see a folder for our project
and if we head into there, here you can see
the
Java class
that is generated
by
the JSP container
for
our
JSP, and it's actually a servlet.
So it's just important to know
that these do compile down to servlets.
So just another way you can see
that servlets are very important within Java EE.